enhancements/network/20190903-SRIOV-GA.md, before:

title: sr-iov
authors:
  - "@zshi-redhat"
  - "@pliurh"
  - "@s1061123"
reviewers:
  - "@fepan"
  - "@dougbtv"
  - "@vpickard"
  - "@dcbw"
  - "@squeed"
approvers:
  - "@derekwaynecarr"
creation-date: 2019-09-03
last-updated: 2019-09-03
status: implementable
---

# SR-IOV

## Release Signoff Checklist

- [x] Enhancement is `implementable`
- [ ] Design details are appropriately documented from clear requirements
- [ ] Test plan is defined
- [ ] Graduation criteria for dev preview, tech preview, GA
- [ ] User-facing documentation is created in [openshift-docs](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/)

## Summary

A proposal to graduate SR-IOV support from Tech Preview to GA.

SR-IOV networks are enabled by Multus on secondary-onward pod interfaces.
It is supported as Tech Preview on OpenShift 4.1 and 4.2 releases.
This proposal is to make SR-IOV Generally Available in 4.3.

## Motivation

* SR-IOV is currently Technical Preview, but customers need to build supported
  solutions on the technology.

### Goals

- Enhance Multus to support runtimeConfig for IP assignment
- Enhance Multus to handle default route overwrite
- Add admission controller for SR-IOV Network Operator
- Compare SR-IOV network performance w/wo NUMA affinity
- Add SR-IOV Metrics and Alerting
- Support both RHEL and RHCOS worker nodes
- Support NUMA node cpu and SR-IOV device alignment

### Non-Goals

- GA userspace (dpdk) workload support

## Proposal

### Implementation Details

#### Multus

Static IPAM plugin is used to assign IPv4 and IPv6 addresses statically to
container interface. It supports receiveing IPv4/v6 address configuration from
both CNI config and runtimeConfig. In case of runtimeConfig, multus reads
address from network annotation in pod and multus supply it as runtimeConfig.
However, current Multus only supports passing IP configuration via CNI config.
This proposal is to add runtimeConfig support in Multus CNI.

##### Default Route Overwrite

Every pod comes with a default route added via openshift-sdn. It is not
possible to change this default route to secondary-onward interfaces.
This proposal is to come up with a solution for Multus to handle default
route overwriting.

##### DHCP Configuration Guide

DHCP IPAM plugin configuration is complicated due to its architecture,
for example, DHCP IPAM requires 'DHCP CNI daemon' and 'DHCP server'.
Currently we only provide simple document and there were several inquiries
from user to enhance this document. This proposal is to provide DHCP
configuration guide to help user understand DHCP CNI configuration and
troubleshooting.

##### Mac Address Pool Management

Fixed MAC address can be specified via pod annotation for SR-IOV devices.
However, user has to manually add MAC address for each SR-IOV interface
in pod annotation which is error prone and inefficient. This proposal is
to improve user experience by providing a MAC pool management tool which
automatically assigns a MAC address in pod annotation.

#### SR-IOV Operator

Currently, the Custom Resources of SR-IOV Network Operator can only be
validated by the declarative OpenAPI v3 schema validation rules defined
in CRD and setting default value for CR is not supported. 

To improve the user experience, an admission controller webhook for the
CRD of SR-IOV network Operator shall be implemented. The admission controller
webhook is expected to validate and set default value for the Custom Resource.

The admission controller webhook and its RBAC shall be provisioned to
openshift master nodes as a deployment by the SRIOV network operator.

The admission controller webhook is expected to:
- Set default value for fields of SriovNetwork CR, if not specified by user
- Set default value for fields of SriovNetworkNodePolicy CR, if not specified
  by user
- Validate during SriovNetwork CR creation and updating request. The webhook
  shall be able to validate following errors:
  - `networkNamespace` refer to non-existing namespace
- Validate during SriovNetworkNodePolicy CR creation and updating request
  The webhook shall be able to validate following errors:
  - The `numVFs` is larger than the maximum value that the NIC can support
  - The `nicSelector` selects PFs which has already been covered by existing
    Policy CRs
  - The `resourceName` contains invalid characters
  - `pfName` or `rootDevices` refers to non-existing device.

#### NUMA

Topology Manager (included in kubernetes 1.16) collects possible configuration
from kubelet Device Manager and CPU Manager, it acts as oracle for local
alignment when making concret resource allocations. Topology Manager supports
several policies such as none, best effort, restrict and single-numa-node.
With restrict and single-numa-node policy, SR-IOV VF devices requested by pod
will be guaranteed to have NUMA locality preferences to CPUs.

### Risks and Mitigations

## Design Details

### Test Plan

Build baremetal CI environment for the following tests:

- SR-IOV Operator e2e test
- SR-IOV CNI, Device Plugin and Admission Controller e2e test
- Upgrade, negative and performance test

### Graduation Criteria

From Tech Preview to GA

#### Tech Preview -> GA

- Manage SR-IOV end to end deployment and configuration via Operator
- Sufficient test coverage (upgrade, negative and performance)
- IP and MAC address management for SR-IOV interfaces

### Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy

### Version Skew Strategy

## Implementation History

### Version 4.1

Tech Preview support for SR-IOV CNI and Network Device Plugin

### Version 4.2

Tech Preview support for SR-IOV Operator, CNI, Network Device Plugin and
Admission Controller

### Version 4.3

GA support for SR-IOV Operator, CNI, Network Device Plugin and Admission
Controllers

Commit message:

SR-IOV GA: add default route overwrite example

enhancements/network/20190903-SRIOV-GA.md, after:

---
title: sr-iov
authors:
  - "@zshi-redhat"
  - "@pliurh"
  - "@s1061123"
reviewers:
  - "@fepan"
  - "@dougbtv"
  - "@vpickard"
  - "@dcbw"
  - "@squeed"
approvers:
  - "@derekwaynecarr"
creation-date: 2019-09-03
last-updated: 2019-09-03
status: implementable
---

# SR-IOV

## Release Signoff Checklist

- [x] Enhancement is `implementable`
- [ ] Design details are appropriately documented from clear requirements
- [ ] Test plan is defined
- [ ] Graduation criteria for dev preview, tech preview, GA
- [ ] User-facing documentation is created in [openshift-docs](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/)

## Summary

A proposal to graduate SR-IOV support from Tech Preview to GA.

SR-IOV networks are enabled by Multus on secondary-onward pod interfaces.
It is supported as Tech Preview on OpenShift 4.1 and 4.2 releases.
This proposal is to make SR-IOV Generally Available in 4.3.

## Motivation

* SR-IOV is currently Technical Preview, but customers need to build supported
  solutions on the technology.

### Goals

- Enhance Multus to support runtimeConfig for IP assignment
- Enhance Multus to handle default route overwrite
- Add admission controller for SR-IOV Network Operator
- Compare SR-IOV network performance w/wo NUMA affinity
- Add SR-IOV Metrics and Alerting
- Support both RHEL and RHCOS worker nodes
- Support NUMA node cpu and SR-IOV device alignment

### Non-Goals

- GA userspace (dpdk) workload support

## Proposal

### Implementation Details

#### Multus

Static IPAM plugin is used to assign IPv4 and IPv6 addresses statically to
container interface. It supports receiveing IPv4/v6 address configuration from
both CNI config and runtimeConfig. In case of runtimeConfig, multus reads
address from network annotation in pod and multus supply it as runtimeConfig.
However, current Multus only supports passing IP configuration via CNI config.
This proposal is to add runtimeConfig support in Multus CNI.

##### Default Route Overwrite

Every pod comes with a default route added via openshift-sdn. It is not
possible to change this default route to secondary-onward interfaces.
This proposal is to come up with a solution for Multus to handle default
route overwriting.

An example of default route overwrite config from proposed solution:

```
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
  namespace: my-namespace
  annotations:
    k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks: |
      [
        { "name":"net-a" },
        {
          "name":"net-b",
          "default-route": ["10.0.0.1"]
        }
      ]
```

In above example, the default route will be set on "net-b" and traffic
routed to the gateway as specified in the "default-route" key.

##### DHCP Configuration Guide

DHCP IPAM plugin configuration is complicated due to its architecture,
for example, DHCP IPAM requires 'DHCP CNI daemon' and 'DHCP server'.
Currently we only provide simple document and there were several inquiries
from user to enhance this document. This proposal is to provide DHCP
configuration guide to help user understand DHCP CNI configuration and
troubleshooting.

##### Mac Address Pool Management

Fixed MAC address can be specified via pod annotation for SR-IOV devices.
However, user has to manually add MAC address for each SR-IOV interface
in pod annotation which is error prone and inefficient. This proposal is
to improve user experience by providing a MAC pool management tool which
automatically assigns a MAC address in pod annotation.

#### SR-IOV Operator

Currently, the Custom Resources of SR-IOV Network Operator can only be
validated by the declarative OpenAPI v3 schema validation rules defined
in CRD and setting default value for CR is not supported. 

To improve the user experience, an admission controller webhook for the
CRD of SR-IOV network Operator shall be implemented. The admission controller
webhook is expected to validate and set default value for the Custom Resource.

The admission controller webhook and its RBAC shall be provisioned to
openshift master nodes as a deployment by the SRIOV network operator.

The admission controller webhook is expected to:
- Set default value for fields of SriovNetwork CR, if not specified by user
- Set default value for fields of SriovNetworkNodePolicy CR, if not specified
  by user
- Validate during SriovNetwork CR creation and updating request. The webhook
  shall be able to validate following errors:
  - `networkNamespace` refer to non-existing namespace
- Validate during SriovNetworkNodePolicy CR creation and updating request
  The webhook shall be able to validate following errors:
  - The `numVFs` is larger than the maximum value that the NIC can support
  - The `nicSelector` selects PFs which has already been covered by existing
    Policy CRs
  - The `resourceName` contains invalid characters
  - `pfName` or `rootDevices` refers to non-existing device.

#### NUMA

Topology Manager (included in kubernetes 1.16) collects possible configuration
from kubelet Device Manager and CPU Manager, it acts as oracle for local
alignment when making concret resource allocations. Topology Manager supports
several policies such as none, best effort, restrict and single-numa-node.
With restrict and single-numa-node policy, SR-IOV VF devices requested by pod
will be guaranteed to have NUMA locality preferences to CPUs.

### Risks and Mitigations

N/A

## Design Details

### Test Plan

Build baremetal CI environment for the following tests:

- SR-IOV Operator e2e test
- SR-IOV CNI, Device Plugin and Admission Controller e2e test
- Upgrade, negative and performance test

### Graduation Criteria

From Tech Preview to GA

#### Tech Preview -> GA

- Manage SR-IOV end to end deployment and configuration via Operator
- Sufficient test coverage (upgrade, negative and performance)
- IP and MAC address management for SR-IOV interfaces

### Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy

N/A

### Version Skew Strategy

N/A

## Implementation History

### Version 4.1

Tech Preview support for SR-IOV CNI and Network Device Plugin

### Version 4.2

Tech Preview support for SR-IOV Operator, CNI, Network Device Plugin and
Admission Controller

### Version 4.3

GA support for SR-IOV Operator, CNI, Network Device Plugin and Admission
Controllers
